# credit-card-fraud-detection

It is a set of activities undertaken to prevent money or property from being obtained through false
pretenses.Models create predictions based on transaction information and some background (historical)
data. We employed only the most important features, which were chosen based on 2 (a chi-square test that
analyses how expectations compare to actual observed data) and recursive feature reduction strategies, to
make the model more resilient.

The list of viable machine learning applications for combating criminal activity is continually growing,
and it is impossible to include all deserving instances here. However, we'll try to highlight the most
intriguing to give you a sense of perspective. According to DataVisor's publicly published E-commerce
fraud case study, their products assist organizations detect over 30% of fraudulent efforts with 90%
accuracy and a 1.3 percent false-positive rate. Feedzai claims that their OpenML Engine enables banks to
build their own Machine Learning software, which has drastically reduced fraud-related losses, according
to another Fraud Detection analytics case study. There are also a number of successful Big Data fraud
detection case studies that use automated analytics to justify enormous volumes of raw data and provide
solutions that can forecast and prevent criminal activity.

Analysis:

In this project, we studied applications of machine learning like Logistic Regression, KNearest
Neighbour, Support Vector Machine, Decision Tree, random Forest, XG-Boost Machine Learning
Algorithms and shows that it proves accurate in detecting fraudulent transaction and minimizing the
number of false alerts. Supervised learning algorithms are a novel one in this literature in terms of
application domain. If these algorithms are applied into a bank credit card fraud detection system, the
probability of fraud transactions can be predicted soon after credit card transactions. And a series of 
anti fraud strategies can be adopted to prevent banks from great losses and reduce risks. The objective of the
study was taken differently than the typical classification problems in that we had a variable
misclassification cost. Precision, recall, f1-score, support and accuracy are used to evaluate the
performance for the proposed system. By comparing all the methods, we found that XGBoost is better
than all the other algorithms with 99.95% accuracy.

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/91583687/190684930-86d96670-ed06-4b32-ac11-a429abbea569.png)
